# Agoric Wallet

This page documents that *Agoric Wallet*, including its use of *petnames*, its place in the Agoric Platform
architecture, accessing it via the *REPL* (*Read-Eval-Print Loop*), and the Wallet API. 

## Petnames

Before we get into the Wallet itself, you should know about *petnames*,
which are your personal names for objects. No one else can see or
modify a petname without your permission. You can think of them as
your phone's contacts list. The actual phone number is what your phone
uses to call someone, but for you to more easily tell who a number is
associated with, you've assigned a petname to it, such as Mom,
Grandpa, Kate S., etc. Different people can have different petnames for
different objects. For example, the same person is "Mom" to you, "Mimi"
to her granddaughter, and "Mrs. Watson" to many others.

Your Wallet manages your petnames for Dapps, asset types, issuers, etc. 

## Wallet and Agoric Architecture

The Agoric System consists of interconnected Agoric VMs. Some are 
on the blockchain, some are local. The Wallet is a user's trusted 
agent for interacting with the Agoric VM network.

We also have Dapps (*Decentralized applications*), which are Web UIs 
that interact with Agoric VMs. Dapps have their own agendas...which
may include wanting to steal assets from Wallets. 

An *Ag-Solo* is a single off-chain Agoric VM. They have their own UI
and way of communicating with chains (including multiple chains and
network connections). They serve as entry points into the Agoric System.

When you run `agoric start`, you get a private ag-solo that runs your 
private wallet. The wallet is a user's *trusted agent*. It lets you
enable or disable inbound connections from Dapps and approve or decline
proposals from those Dapps you enabled. The Wallet is visible at
`localhost:3000`.

The way this works in the Wallet's UI is via the *proposals* that are
part of a Zoe *offer*; a Dapp says it wants the user to offer something.
The wallet expresses that request/offer in a popup, and the user indicates
they want to enact or decline it. 

Dapps can be anywhere; they can be web apps interacting with wallets, 
usually because they want your money and/or help you exchange something
with someone else. They may even want to give you something for free. 
But a Dapp's main use is exhanging something on the chain, in addition
to controling what access they have and managing the proposals.

## Wallet Bridge protocol

The *wallet bridge* is a web page with direct access to an Agoric Wallet. It provides
the Dapp with a facet of an API. Dapps never talk directly to a Wallet, only to
this bridge that knows where the Wallet is. So, for example, if a Dapp is running in
`localhost:8000` and the Wallet in `localhost:3000`, they don't communicate directly.
They do so by sending JSON-encoded messages through the wallet bridge.

**tyg todo: What else should they know here?**

## Petnames and paths

The wallet bridge protocol is migrating petnames to *paths*. All former petnames
are now either a *path* or still a plain string. A path is an array of strings
whose first element is the user's petname for a Dapp. Dapps must be able to
work with either plain string petnames or array-of-strings paths. 

They can do this via `JSON.stringify(petnameOrPath)` before using the `petnameOrPath` in
a programmatic string-only context (such as a key in a Map or Set, or an HTML element's 
attribute value, such as an ID).  When displaying a path to users, you should join its
elements with `'.'`. If in an IDE, you should ideally coloring the first element 
differently from the dots and other elements. The first element is a trusted, 
user-assigned petname for the Dapp, while the other elements were automatically 
generated by the Dapp or wallet. Thus, they have no special relationship to the user.

### Dapp-specific path suggestions

Your Dapp should suggest names for any Installations, Instances, or Issuers wallet users
will interact with. When a wallet accepts them, it returns them to the Dapp as paths (arrays 
of strings) that start with the user's petname for the Dapp.

For example, here are [the messages that the Fungible Faucet Dapp 
sends](https://github.com/Agoric/dapp-fungible-faucet/blob/6092d6648a7a773d299c79fecd44bb650f6cfa06/ui/public/src/main.js#L145) 
over the wallet bridge:

```js
    // Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Installation`.
    walletSend({
      type: 'walletSuggestInstallation',
      petname: 'Installation',
      boardId: INSTALLATION_BOARD_ID,
    });
    // Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Instance`.
    walletSend({
      type: 'walletSuggestInstance',
      petname: 'Instance',
      boardId: INSTANCE_BOARD_ID,
    });
    // Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Assurance`.
    walletSend({
      type: 'walletSuggestIssuer',
      petname: 'Token',
      boardId: TOKEN_ISSUER_BOARD_ID,
    });
 ```

## The Agoric Board

Several Wallet API methods use *Agoric's Board*, a key-value "bulletin board" that
lets users make data generally available. Users can post an Id for a value and 
others can get the value just by knowing the Id. You can make Id(s) known by any 
communication method you like; private email, an email blast to a mailing list 
or many individuals, buying an ad on a website, tv program, or newspaper, 
listing it on her website, etc.

<<< @/snippets/ertp/guide/test-readme.js#getValue

To get an object, such as a depositFacet, using the Board, first you have
to be told what Board Id is associated with it. Using the `getValue()` method,
you retrieve the reference to the depositFacet and can deposit payments into it. 

## The Wallet UI

**tyg todo: Working on**

## Wallet API Overview

You can interact with a Wallet via the JavaScript *REPL* (*Read-Eval-Print Loop*),
which is visible at the bottom of the Wallet UI display. 
In the REPL, you send message to `home.wallet`, which is the Wallet running on that
page/process. Typing `E(home.wallet).foo()` in the REPL returns the names of all the Wallet
API methods by the clever method of asking it to evaluate a non-existant API method and
getting an error message listing all the valid methods.

Running `agoric open --repl==only` opens a browser tab that shows only the REPL, and not
the combination of Wallet UI and REPL area. When issuing commands to the Wallet from the
REPL, they must be of the form `E(home.wallet).<Wallet API command and arguments>`. See 
the [`E()` section](/distributed-programming.html#communicating-with-remote-objects-using-e) in 
the Distributed JavaScript Programming Guide for more information about `E()`.

Wallet API commands work with the following object types:
- `purse`: Stores assets until you withdraw them into a payment for use 
- `issuer`: Creates empty purses and payments and maps minted assets
  to them when assets are added or removed. Issuers verify and move
  digital assets.
- `offer`: Consists of what amount of what [brand](/ertp/guide/amounts.md#brands)
  you're willing to give, and what amount of what brand you want, as well as the
  conditions under which the offer holder can cancel it.
- `seat`:
- `instance`:
- `installation`:

## Purse API Methods

### `deposit(pursePetname, payment)`
- `pursePetname`  `{ String }`
- `payment`  `{ Payment }`
- Returns: The deposited amount.

Deposits the specified payment into the specified purse in the wallet. Returns the deposited amount.

**Note**: `deposit()` has a special case. Since Zoe invitations are represented as ERTP payments,
a wallet receives invitations and uses `deposit()` to put them in an invitation-branded purse.

```js
wallet.deposit('myQuatloosPurse', quatloosPayment);
```

### `enableAutoDeposit(pursePetname)`
- `pursePetname` `{String}`
- Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure**

**tyg todo: Unclear what this does**

### `disableAutoDeposit()`
- `pursePetname` `{String}`
- Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure**

**tyg todo: Unclear what this does**

### `getDepositFacetId(_brandBoardId)`
- `_brandBoardId`:  **tyg todo: Doesn't seem to actually be used in the method?**
- Returns: The Board id for the generic depositFacet. **tyg todo: Not sure what's meant by this generic thing?**

### `getPurses()`
- Returns:  Promises for all `purse` objects in the wallet and their 
petnames via an array of [petname, promise] arrays.

The returned array of arrays can be turned into a `Map` (`new Map(getPurses())`).
```js
const walletPurses = await wallet.getPurses();
```

### `getPurse(pursePetname)`
- `pursePetName`  `{String}`
- Returns: A promise for the `purse` object with the given petname
- Errors: Throws an error if there is no purse with the given petname.

Returns a promise for the `purse` object associated with the given petname.

```js
const quatloosPurse = await wallet.getPurse('myQuatloosPurse');
```
**Note**: Since Zoe invitations are ERTP payments, wallets hold invitations
in purses associated with an invitation brand. To access the default purse
for invitations, do:
```js
const invitePurse = wallet.getPurse(ZOE_INVITE_PURSE_PETNAME); 
```

### `getPurseIssuer(petname)`
-  `petname`  `{String}`
- Returns: The `issuer` object associated with the purse.
- Errors: Throws an error if given an invalid purse petname. 

Given a purse's petname, returns the `issuer` object associated with the purse. 

### `makeEmptyPurse(brandPetname, pursePetname)`
- `brandPetname` `{String}`
- `pursePetname` `{String}`
- Returns: A new, empty, `purse` object.
- Errors: There is already a purse in this wallet with the name of `pursePetname`'s value.   

Creates and returns a new, empty, purse object with the specified petname, which contains assets 
of the specified brand petname, and uses that brand's associated issuer.
```js
const myFunMoneyQuatloosPurse = await wallet.makeEmptyPurse('quatloos', 'fun money');
```
### `enableAutoDeposit(pursePetname)
- `pursePetname` `{String}`
- Returns: 


## Issuer API Methods

Note: Click [`getPurseIssuer()`](#getpurseissuer-petname) to see its documentation.

### `addIssuer(issuerPetname, issuer, brandRegKey)(petnameForBrand, issuer, makePurse = false)`
- `petnameForBrand` `{String}`
- `issuer` `{Issuer}`
- `makePurse` `{Boolean}` Optional
- Returns: The string `issuer ${q(petnameForBrand)} successfully added to wallet`

Adds the specified issuer to the wallet. The issuer's associated brand is given the specified
petname. If the optional `makePurse` argument is `true`, it makes a new purse in the wallet for
the issuer's brand. 
```js
await wallet.addIssuer('quatloos', quatlooIssuer);
```

### `getIssuer(petname)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- Returns: The issuer in the wallet with the specified petname.
```
const quatloosIssuer = wallet.getIssuer('quatloosIssuer');
```

### `getIssuers()`
- Returns: All issuers associated with the wallet and their petnames as an 
  array of arrays of the format `[[issuerPetname, issuer], ...]`. 

Use `getIssuers()` to make a new map of petnames to issuers by doing `new Map(getIssuer())` 
```js
const walletIssuers = wallet.getIssuers();
```
### `publishIssuer(brand)`
- `brand` `{Brand}`
- Returns: The Board ID of the issuer associated with the specified brand.

Gets the issuer associated with the specified brand. If that issuer has an associated Board ID,
the ID is returned. If not, the issuer is given a new board ID, which is returned.

### `renameIssuer(petname, issuer)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `issuer` `{Issuer}`
- Returns: `issuer ${q(petname)} successfully renamed in wallet`

Renames the specified issuer to have the specified petname. Error if the issuer is not
in the wallet. 


### `suggestIssuer(suggestedPetname, issuerBoardId, dappOrigin = undefined)`
- `suggestedPetname` `{String}`
- `issuerBoardId` = `{String}`
- `dappOrigin` = `{tyg todo: Not sure what should go here}` optional, defaults to `undefined`.
Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure**

Gets the issuer from its associated Board ID. If not already in the wallet, it adds the
issuer to the wallet. If the issuer is added, an empty purse associated with it is also created
and added to the wallet. The issuer is given the specified petname. **tyg todo: Not sure what
dappOrigin is or how it's used**


## Offer API Methods

### `acceptOffer(id)`
- `id` `{String}`
- Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure?**
- Errors: If the offer has already been resolved or rejected. 

Makes the id-specified offer to the target contract. It approves 
a proposal added by `addOffer()` and submits an offer to the contract
instance on behalf of the  user. Changes the specified offer's status 
to "accepted" in the wallet inbox. 

### `addOffer(rawOffer, requestContext = {})`  
- `rawOffer` `{Object}`
- `requestContext` **tyg todo Not sure what should go here other than Optional and {} default**
- Returns: The offer's Board id.

Adds a new proposal to the wallet's inbox that the user can approve to make an 
offer to a contract invitation. The `rawOffer` is a potential offer sent from the
Dapp UI to be looked at by the user. Its invitation is extracted from the wallet's invitation
purse. **tyg todo Not sure what requestContext does**

### `cancelOffer(id)`
- `id` `{String}`
- Returns: `true` if successful, `false` if not.
- Errors: Returns `false` if the offer was not made with the exit rule `onDemand`, throws if the offer was already completed.

Cancels the id-specified offer in the contract instance and changes its status in the wallet inbox to "cancel". 

### `declineOffer(id)`
- `id` `{String}`
- Returns: Undefined

Changes the status of the id-specified offer in the wallet inbox to "decline". 

### `getOffers()`
- Returns: An array of the `offer` objects associated with the wallet, sorted by
id.  

## Instance API Methods

**tyg todo: How is this associated with the wallet? Just the contract instance it's in?**

### `addInstance(petname, instanceHandle)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `instanceHandle` `{InstanceHandle}`
- Returns: `instance ${q(petname)} successfully added to wallet`

### `getInstance(petname)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- Returns: The instance object with the given petname. 
```js
const automaticRefundInstance = wallet.getInstance('automaticRefund');
```
Gives the specified instance the specified petname, and adds the instalation to the wallet.

### `renameInstance(petname, instance)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `instance` `{Instance}`
Returns: `instance ${q(petname)} successfully renamed in wallet`

Renames the specified instance with the specified petname.
  
### `suggestInstance(suggestedPetname, instanceBoardId, dappOrigin = undefined)`
- `suggestedPetname` `{String}`
- `instanceBoardId` = `{String}`
- `dappOrigin` = `{tyg todo: Not sure what should go here}` optional, defaults to `undefined`.
Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure**

Gets the instance from its associated Board ID. If not already in the wallet, it adds the
instance to the wallet. The instance is given the specified petname. **tyg todo: Not sure what
dappOrigin is or how it's used**
```js
automaticRefundInstance = await wallet.suggestInstance(
    'automaticRefund', 
    automaticRefundInstanceBoardId, 
  ); 
```

## Installation API Methods

**tyg todo: How is installation associated with the wallet? Just the contract installation it's in?**

### `addInstallation(petname, installationHandle)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `installationHandle` `{InstallationHandle}`
- Returns: `installation ${q(petname)} successfully added to wallet`

Gives the specified installation the specified petname, and adds the instalation to the wallet.

### `getInstallation(petname)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- Returns: The installation object with the given petname. 

```js
const automaticRefundInstallation = wallet.getInstallation('automaticRefund');
```
### `renameInstallation(petname, installation)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `installation` `{Installation}`
Returns: `installation ${q(petname)} successfully renamed in wallet`

Renames the specified installation with the specified petname.
```js
await wallet.renameInstallation('automaticRefund2', installation); 
```

### `suggestInstallation(suggestedPetname, installationBoardId, dappOrigin = undefined)`
- `suggestedPetname` `{String}`
- `installationBoardId` = `{String}`
- `dappOrigin` = `{tyg todo: Not sure what should go here}` optional, defaults to `undefined`
Returns: **tyg todo: Not sure**

Gets the installation from its associated Board ID. If not already in the wallet, it adds the
installation to the wallet. The installation is given the specified petname. **tyg todo: Not sure what
dappOrigin is or how it's used**
```js
const automaticRefundInstallation = await wallet.suggestInstallation(
    'automaticRefund', 
     automaticRefundInstallationBoardId, 
  ); 
```

## Contact API Methods

### `getSelfContact()`

**tyg todo: Don't know what's going on here**
// Allow people to send us payments.
  const selfContact = await addContact('Self', {
    receive(payment) {
      return addPayment(payment);
    },
  });

### `addContact(petname, actions)`
- `petname` `{String}`
- `actions` `{}`
Returns: 

**tyg todo: Not sure what's going on here. In particular, what are "actions"? Code below**
```js
const addContact = async (petname, actions) => {
    const already = await E(board).has(actions);
    let depositFacet;
    if (already) {
      depositFacet = actions;
    } else {
      depositFacet = harden({
        receive(paymentP) {
          return E(actions).receive(paymentP);
        },
      });
    }
```
### `getContactsNotifier()`
- Returns: `{ContractsNotifier}`

**tyg todo: Not sure what's going on. It seems to just return "contractsNotifier", but I don't know what that's for**

## Seat API Methods

### `getSeat(id)`
- `id` `{String}`
- Returns: `{Seat}`

Returns the seat that is the Board value associated with the specified id.
```js
const seat = wallet.getSeat(id); 
```

### `getSeats([id])
- `[id]` `{[String]}`
Returns an array of seat objects which are the Board values associated each of
the ids in the specified array of ids.
```js
const seats = wallet.getSeats(harden([id])); 
```



