# Agoric Wallet

This page documents the _Agoric Wallet_, including its use of _petnames_ and its place in the Agoric Platform
architecture. See also [tour of the Wallet UI](./ui), [Wallet API reference](/reference/wallet-api/).

## Wallet and Agoric Architecture

The Agoric System consists of interconnected Agoric VMs. Some are
on the blockchain, some are local. The Wallet is a user's trusted
agent for interacting with the Agoric VM network.

We also have Dapps (_Decentralized applications_), which are Web UIs
that interact with Agoric VMs. Dapps have their own agendas...which
may include wanting to steal assets from Wallets.

An _Ag-Solo_ is a single off-chain Agoric VM. They have their own UI
and way of communicating with chains (including multiple chains and
network connections). They serve as entry points into the Agoric System.

When you run `agoric start`, you get a private ag-solo that runs your
private wallet. The wallet is a user's _trusted agent_. It lets you
enable or disable inbound connections from Dapps and approve or decline
proposals from those Dapps you enabled. The Wallet is visible
when you run `agoric open`.

The way this works in the Wallet's UI is via the _proposals_ that are
part of a Zoe _offer_; a Dapp says it wants the user to offer something.
The wallet expresses that request/offer in a popup, and the user indicates
if they want to enact or decline it.

Dapps can be anywhere; they can be web apps interacting with wallets,
usually because they want your money and/or help you exchange something
with someone else. They may even want to give you something for free.
But a Dapp's main use is exchanging something on the chain, in addition
to controlling what access they have and managing the proposals.

## Wallet Bridge Protocol

The _wallet bridge_ is a web page with direct access to an Agoric Wallet. It provides
the Dapp with a facet of an API. Dapps never talk directly to a Wallet, only to
this bridge that knows where the Wallet is. So, for example, if a Dapp is running in
your browser at `https://treasury.agoric.app/` and the Wallet is running locally,
they don't communicate directly. They do so by sending JSON-encoded messages through
the wallet bridge.

## Petnames and Paths

Before we get into the Wallet itself, you should know about _petnames_,
which are your personal names for objects. No one else can see or
modify a petname without your permission. You can think of them as
your phone's contacts list. The actual phone number is what your phone
uses to call someone, but for you to more easily tell who a number is
associated with, you've assigned a petname to it, such as Mom,
Grandpa, Kate S., etc. Different people can have different petnames for
different objects. For example, the same person is "Mom" to you, "Mimi"
to her granddaughter, and "Mrs. Watson" to many others.

Your Wallet manages your petnames for Dapps, asset types, issuers, etc.

The wallet bridge protocol is migrating petnames to _paths_. All former petnames
are now either a _path_ or still a plain string. A path is an array of strings
whose first element is the user's petname for a Dapp. Dapps must be able to
work with either plain string petnames or array-of-strings paths.

They can do this via `JSON.stringify(petnameOrPath)` before using the `petnameOrPath` in
a programmatic string-only context (such as a key in a Map or Set, or an HTML element's
attribute value, such as an ID). When displaying a path to users, you should join its
elements with `'.'`. If in a UI, you should ideally color the first element
differently from the dots and other elements. The first element is a trusted,
user-assigned petname for the Dapp, while the other elements were automatically
generated by the Dapp or wallet. Thus, they have no special relationship to the user.

### Dapp-Specific Path Suggestions

Your Dapp should suggest names for any Installations, Instances, or Issuers wallet users
will interact with. When a wallet accepts them, it returns them to the Dapp as paths (arrays
of strings) that start with the user's petname for the Dapp.

For example, here are [the messages that the Fungible Faucet Dapp
sends](https://github.com/Agoric/dapp-fungible-faucet/blob/6092d6648a7a773d299c79fecd44bb650f6cfa06/ui/public/src/main.js#L145)
over the wallet bridge:

```js
// Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Installation`.
walletSend({
  type: 'walletSuggestInstallation',
  petname: 'Installation',
  boardId: INSTALLATION_BOARD_ID
});
// Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Instance`.
walletSend({
  type: 'walletSuggestInstance',
  petname: 'Instance',
  boardId: INSTANCE_BOARD_ID
});
// Our issuer will default to something like `FungibleFaucet.Token`.
walletSend({
  type: 'walletSuggestIssuer',
  petname: 'Token',
  boardId: TOKEN_ISSUER_BOARD_ID
});
```

## The Agoric Board

Several Wallet API methods use _Agoric's Board_, a key-value "bulletin board" that
lets users make data generally available. Users can obtain an Id by posting a value and
others can get the value just by knowing the Id. You can make Id(s) known by any
communication method you like; private email, an email blast to a mailing list
or many individuals, buying an ad on a website, tv program, or newspaper,
listing it on your website, etc.

<<< @/../snippets/ertp/guide/test-readme.js#getValue

To get an object, such as a depositFacet, using the Board, first you have
to be told what Board Id is associated with it. Using the `getValue()` method,
you retrieve the reference to the depositFacet and can deposit payments into it.
