---
sidebar: auto
---
# Agoric Dapp

::: warning Changes in the Beta Release Candidate
[Learn more about the changes to Zoe, contracts, and dapps in the
Beta Release Candidate](../getting-started/beta.md).
:::

**This is a generic guide to Agoric Dapp projects**

A dapp is a *decentralized application* which typically has a browser-based user interface, a public API server, and a contract running on the Agoric blockchain.

## Using a Dapp

If you have installed the [Agoric CLI](../getting-started/before-using-agoric.md) and you just want to try running a dapp locally (on a simulated Agoric VM, not an actual public chain), you can...

Checkout the latest beta release of the sdk:
```sh
# Here we're using agoricdev-8 as the latest release.
cd agoric-sdk
git checkout -b beta agoricdev-8
```

Use `agoric init` to make a new local copy of a dapp template:
```sh
# Here we chose the Fungible Faucet Dapp.
# You can replace `my-fungible-faucet` with a name of your choice.
agoric init --dapp-template dapp-fungible-faucet my-fungible-faucet
cd my-fungible-faucet
# Install the project dependencies
agoric install
# Start the Agoric VM
agoric start --reset
```

Leave this command running (it is your simulated environment).  Then,
in a separate terminal, deploy the contract and API to the VM.

```sh secondary style2
# Deploy a new instance of the contract to the VM
agoric deploy contract/deploy.js
# Reset the VM's API server
agoric deploy api/deploy.js
```

Then in a third terminal:

```sh secondary style3
# Start the user interface
cd ui && yarn start
```

You can then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view your dapp.

## Modifying this Dapp

In the Agoric system, components are written in Javascript.

## Components

The following are the important directories in an Agoric Dapp project:

- [`contract/`](#contract-directory) defines the on-chain smart contract.
- [`api/`](#api) defines the chain-connected server's `/api` HTTP endpoint.
- [`ui/`](#ui) defines the browser user interface connecting users' personal wallets and the API server.

Other files and directories in this top-level folder should not typically be modified.

### Contract directory

In the `contract` directory, you can find the following files to edit:

- `src/` contract source code, starting with `src/contract.js`

Other files and folders that you don't typically need to edit:

- `deploy.js` generic Agoric contract deployment script

### API

In the `api` directory, you can find the following files to edit:

- `src/` handler for /api HTTP endpoints, starting with `src/handler.js`

Other files and folders that you don't typically need to edit:

- `deploy.js` generic Agoric API handler deployment script

### UI

The `ui` directory is almost completely under your control.  The only files and folders that you don't typically need to edit:

- `public/lib` Agoric UI library
- `public/conf` configuration files that are generated by the `contract/deploy.js` script

## More information

You can [learn more about the Agoric smart contract platform](https://agoric.com) and how to [create Agoric Dapps](../getting-started).
