# Agoric Dapps

::: warning Changes in the Beta Release Candidate
[Learn more about the changes to Zoe, contracts, and dapps in the
Beta Release Candidate](../getting-started/beta.md).
:::

**This is a generic guide to Agoric Dapp projects**

A dapp is a *decentralized application* which typically has a browser-based user interface, a public API server, and a contract running on the Agoric blockchain.

## Using a Dapp

If you have installed the [Agoric CLI](../getting-started/) and you want to try running a dapp locally on a simulated Agoric VM (i.e., it won't be running on an actual public chain), do the following:

1. Checkout the latest beta release of the SDK.

	```sh
	cd agoric-sdk
	git checkout beta
	yarn && yarn build
	```
2. Run `agoric init` to make a new local copy of a dapp template.

	```sh
	# Here we chose the Fungible Faucet Dapp.
	# You can replace `my-fungible-faucet` with a name of your choice.
	agoric init --dapp-template dapp-fungible-faucet --dapp-branch beta my-fungible-faucet
	cd my-fungible-faucet
	# Install the project dependencies
	agoric install
	# Start the Agoric VM
	agoric start --reset
	```
3. Leave this command running (it is your simulated environment).  
4. In a separate terminal, deploy the contract and API to the VM.

	```sh secondary style2
	# Deploy a new instance of the contract to the VM
	agoric deploy contract/deploy.js
	# Reset the VM's API server
	agoric deploy api/deploy.js
	```
5. In a third terminal, run the following.

	```sh secondary style3
	# Start the user interface
	cd ui && yarn start
	```
6. You can now navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view your dapp.

## Modifying this Dapp

In the Agoric system, components are written in Javascript.

## Components

The following are the important directories in an Agoric dapp project:

- [`contract/`](#contract-directory) defines the on-chain smart contract.
- [`api/`](#api-directory) defines the chain-connected server's `/api` HTTP endpoint.
- [`ui/`](#ui-directory) defines the browser user interface connecting users' personal wallets and the API server.

Other files and directories in this top-level folder should not typically be modified.

### Contract Directory

In the `contract` directory, you can find the following files to edit:

- **src directory**: Contract source code, starting with `src/contract.js`.

There are also files and folders that you usually shouldn't edit:

- **deploy.js**: Generic Agoric contract deployment script.

### API Directory

In the `api` directory, you can find the following files to edit:

- **src directory**: Handler for API HTTP endpoints, starting with `src/handler.js`.

There are also files and folders that you usually shouldn't edit:

- **deploy.js**: Generic Agoric API handler deployment script.

### UI Directory

The `ui` directory is almost completely under your control. The only files and folders that you usually shouldn't edit are:

- **public/lib**: The Agoric UI library.
- **public/conf**: Configuration files that are generated by the `contract/deploy.js` script.

## More Information

You can [learn more about the Agoric smart contract platform](https://agoric.com).
